Blog: Aruba Hackathon (#5747)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/aruba-hackathon.md

---
date: 2023-04-12
title: "What we built at our sun-kissed Aruba hackathon"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["andy-vandervell"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/aruba/beach-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Inside PostHog
tags: 
  - Offsites
---

> Every year, Team PostHog congregate for our annual all-company offsite. In previous years we've been to Italy, Portugal and Iceland. This year, we went to the Aruba – a tiny, Caribbean island just off the north coast of Venezuela.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every year, Team PostHog congregates for our annual all-company offsite. In previous years we've been to Italy, Portugal and Iceland. This year, we went to the Aruba – a tiny, Caribbean island just off the north coast of Venezuela.
```

![posthog aruba](../images/blog/aruba/aruba-vibes.jpeg)

> As a remote company, our offsites are a hugely important part of our culture. We encourage everyone to meet up when they can, be that through co-working, ad-hoc visits (which we pay for), or small team offsites, but we only get the whole company together once a year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a remote company, our offsites are a hugely important part of our culture. We encourage everyone to meet up when they can, be that through co-working, ad-hoc visits ([which we pay for](/handbook/people/spending-money#budget-for-socializing), or [small team offsites](/handbook/company/offsites#small-team-offsites), but we only get the whole company together once a year.
```

![posthog aruba](../images/blog/aruba/people-shots.jpeg)

When we do, we like to plan a mixture of fun social activities, strategic sessions and workshops, culture exercises, and (the most important bit) a 24-hour hackathon.

![posthog aruba](../images/blog/aruba/aruba-hackathon-photos.jpeg)

Here's what we built.

## MaxAI: Our friendly, PostHog support AI

- **Team Bandwaggoners:** James Greenhill, Paul Hultgren, Eric Duong, Raquel Smith and Neil Kakkar

Deployed on our Slack, app, website, and GitHub repos, MaxAI was the inevitable result of everyone wanting to play with GPT. 

> The goal of the team was to create an AI bot that could answer support questions, easing the load on our support heroes and making it easier for the community to find answers to their questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal was to create an AI bot that could answer support questions, easing the load on our [support heroes](/handbook/engineering/support-hero) and making it easier for the community to find answers to [their questions](/questions).
```

Built using Weaviate, Haystack, and `gpt-3.5-turbo`, MaxAI works by taking a user's question, collecting all relevant docs and data for that question, generating a prompt with all that context, and querying OpenAI for an answer.

Here's a flowchart of the process:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[User Question] -->|Embed| I(Question Vector)
    I -->|Query Weaviate|J[Most Similar Docs]
    J -->|Collect Prompt Params| C{Prompt Context}
    C --> D[Limitations]
    C --> E[Personality]
    C --> F[Context Docs]
    F --> G[String Prompt]
    E --> G
    D --> G
    G -->|Query OpenAI|H[AI Response]
```

On the whole, Max gives useful answers – even when using the general data and dealing with complex questions. Max is also dead handy for summarizing long support threads in Slack or GitHub issues. 

![maxai](../images/blog/aruba/max-ai.jpeg)

> That said, Max isn't immune to hallucinating solutions – or even URLs for docs that don't exist – if it doesn't know the answer. It's a work in progress we'll be releasing Max on our support Slack soon as a beta. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said, Max isn't immune to hallucinating solutions – or even URLs for docs that don't exist – if it doesn't know the answer. It's a work in progress, but we've released Max on [our community Slack](/slack) as a beta. Drop him a DM! 
```

Check out the [MaxAI repo](https://github.com/PostHog/max-ai) for more info.

## Dashboard template libraries and learning tracks

- **Team Vibes:** Ian Vanagas, Joe Martin and Andy Vandervell

> The marketing team worked together to build (and ship) a [public library of pre-built dashboards](/templates), including an [AARRR pirate metrics dashboard](/templates/aarrr-dashboard), [templates for B2C](/templates/b2c-dashboard) and [B2B products](/templates/b2c-dashboard), and a [landing page report](/templates/landing-dashboard) for marketers transitioning from Google Analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the Marketing team worked together to build (and ship) a [public library of pre-built dashboards](/templates), including an [AARRR pirate metrics dashboard](/templates/aarrr-dashboard), [templates for B2C](/templates/b2c-dashboard) and [B2B products](/templates/b2c-dashboard), and a [landing page report](/templates/landing-dashboard) for marketers transitioning from Google Analytics.
```

![dashboard templates](../images/blog/aruba/templates.png)

These dashboards are accessible from the 'New Dashboard' modal in PostHog. Some templates require custom events, which you'll be asked to configure before creating the dashboard – you can also change the events you track later.

![dashboard templates](../images/blog/aruba/setup-events.png)

Got a request for a dashboard? DM someone from the marketing on our community Slack.

> Joe Martin also worked with Eli from the Website & Docs team to ship [PostHog Tracks](/tracks), a new way to discover tutorials organized by role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Joe, one hackathon project wasn't enough. He also worked with Eli Kinsey from the Website & Docs team to ship [PostHog Tracks](/tracks), a new way to discover tutorials organized by role.
```

## A built-in data warehouse for PostHog

- **Team DataBeach:** Marius Andra, Frank Hamand and Harry Waye

> Dubbed DataBeach because Frank and Harry started building the feature while sipping Piña Coladas by the beach, DataBeach is all about our long-term vision of  [simplifying the modern data stack](/blog/modern-data-stack-sucks) for startups. Less time spent wrangling data = more time shipping products. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dubbed DataBeach because Frank and Harry built it while sipping Piña Coladas by the beach, this is all about our long-term vision of [simplifying the modern data stack](/blog/modern-data-stack-sucks) for startups. Less time spent wrangling data = more time shipping products. 
```

![databeach](../images/blog/aruba/data-beach.png)

The MVP they built consists of custom tables that are created and queried through the PostHog UI and API. These tables provide a way to store and query data from sources like Stripe, Hubspot (see above), Intercom, and more, along with data from PostHog.

> There's much to build before PostHog as a data warehouse is ready for you, but it's coming. Keep an eye on our [public roadmap](/roadmap) for updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's more to build before PostHog is ready to be your data warehouse, but we're working on it. Keep an eye on our [public roadmap](/roadmap) for updates.
```

> ## Building a Zendesk killer in PostHog

Reviewer 2: This changed a bit direction later and it might be more helpful to not call it `Zendesk killer` as we actually ended up integrating it in a better way.

maybe `Leveling up PostHog support`

- **Team Arubug:** Tiina Turban, Simon Fisher, Paul D'Ambra, Cameron DeLeone, and Cory Watilo

Last year, we adopted Zendesk to manage support for PostHog, but we don't love it. It's hard to prioritize tickets, and most lack the context a support hero or engineer needs to fix it. Enter team Arubug, who decided there had to be a better way.

// TODO: Video of site app

The team started by [building a site app](/tutorials/build-site-app) for bug reports based on our existing [Feedback Widget](/apps/feedback-widget), which sends a `$bug_report` event to PostHog.

// TODO: Screenshot of dashboard

These reports feed into a dashboard that tracks bug reports, helping us to identity trends. Bugs can broken down as tables with relevant properties, and session replays, attached.

// TODO: Screenshot of bug report table 

The team also built a communication tab into bug reports, so support can send emails and leave notes on tickets with additional context without leaving the app. Every email is a ClickHouse event tied to the initial UUID of the report event, with emails (for now) sent and received via Zapier.

> // TODO: Screenshot of communication tab

Reviewer 2: can be found in https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1KhKZ8wHtjTqy60VOX6MfmGkdMoSDQThaZJJfPelJQbs/edit#slide=id.g1e00c37dd43_2_28
for others earlier too

Author: The actual dashboard view yo showed during the presentation isn't in the deck. Where can I find it?

> Long term, we're looking at whether this could replace Zendesk for support, and be launched as a beta product for PostHog users one day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Long-term, we're looking at whether this could replace Zendesk for support, and launch as a product for PostHog users one day.
```

> Long term, we're looking at whether this could replace Zendesk for support, and be launched as a beta product for PostHog users one day.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the hackathon we've reviewed the plan:
- we realised that there's another problem internally: due to the increased complexity of our product it’s become harder for a single engineer to provide good support for all of our products. Support hero’s also shield product teams from feedback about their product, which means it’s harder to iterate on a product. So we're going to use this in-app integration to split out to the more specific team helping us do triaging effectively.
- we've decided at this point not to continue the work on the communication tab and instead integrate better with Zendesk, that said the way we handle support can be used by customers too, there will be a blog post coming to explain this further.
```

^ I think we could write a great blog post about how to include info about session recordings etc into their support ticketing tool and take advantage of session recordings like we do and do analytics on their support tickets like we do.

// TODO: Gif of toolbar

They also set about revamping the PostHog Toolbar, replacing the dull but functional PostHog icon with an animated Max whose status changes when you select different toolbar features.

## PostHog beta feature previews

- **Team WE WILL DE-FEAT-URE MANAGEMENT YOU:** James Hawkins, Michael Matloka and Annika Schmid

We're constantly building new features, but we have to invite users personally to try them out. It's inefficient and not cool. James, Michael and Annika thought it would be better if PostHog users could join PostHog betas themselves. So, they built it. That is cool.

// TODO: Screenshot of feature preview

Feature previews is pretty simple. It's a list of features we're testing, including screenshots and basic information, that users can simply enable or disable whenever they like. When they do, they're either automatically added to removed from the relevant feature flag.

> In future, we want to build this out so users can register their interest in features that aren't ready yet, so they get automatically added to the preview when it goes live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the future, we want to build this out so users can register their interest in features that aren't ready yet, so they get automatically added to the preview when it goes live.
```

> We hope to roll this out as a usable feature soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope to roll this out as a usable feature soon. Until then, there's still the [public roadmap](/roadmap)!
```

## Summer social events

- **Team Plops (People & Ops):** Coua Phang and Kendal Hall

Our hackathon isn't just for engineering. The People & Ops team used the time to plan summer events (IRL and virtual) for the PostHog team.

In June they've planned a virtual engraving workshop, in July a virtual escape room experience, and in August we're getting together in Cambridge, UK for a scavenger hunt around the city, and a barbecue.

## Event-based automations

- **Team Automations:** Luke Harries, Ben White, Thomas Obermüller, Cory Watilo 

Luke and Thomas built an MVP for automations in PostHog. In the MVP, automations have a source (event, action or cron job), logic (pause for / pause until), and sources (e.g. send a Slack message, create a GitHub Issue, add to cohort, add to feature flag, send an in-app message etc.).

// TODO: Screenshot of Automation creation

> Even this basic functionality creates numerous helpful use cases, but long-term we expect to add more sources and destinations, and the ability to create automations based on event thresholds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even this basic functionality has numerous helpful use cases, but long-term we expect to add more sources and destinations, and the ability to create automations based on event thresholds.
```

## HouseWatch: Centralized monitoring and management for ClickHouse

- **Team HouseWatch:** Li Yi Yu, Yakko Majuri, and Tim Glaser

PostHog uses ClickHouse as our main event database, but we end up using a huge range of tools (Grafana, Metabase, pganalyze etc.) to monitor and manage it. Team HouseWatch built a centralized dashboard, so we can eliminate all this bloat and have everything in one place.

// TODO: Screenshot of House Watch

> The homepage allows us to monitor things like execution count (queries per hour), and memory usage. There's also a slow queries view, which will allow the team to proactively identify problematic queries and reach out to customers to help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The homepage enables us to monitor things like execution count (queries per hour), and memory usage. There's also a slow queries view, which will allow the team to proactively identify problematic queries and reach out to customers to help.
```

Other features include:

- Custer performance overview
- Table size visualizations (including size by columns)
- Ability to kill queries
- Productized async migrations

> Needless to say, this is all backend work you will never see, but House Watch will make it easier for us to keep PostHog fast and reliable for you.

Reviewer: This is an talent brand piece, ultimately. Worth ending with a shout-out to join the team?

---
date: 2023-04-12
title: "What we built at our sun-kissed Aruba hackathon"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["andy-vandervell"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/aruba/beach-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Inside PostHog
tags: 
  - Offsites
---

> Every year, Team PostHog congregates for our annual all-company offsite. In previous years we've been to Italy, Portugal and Iceland. This year, we went to the Aruba – a tiny, Caribbean island just off the north coast of Venezuela.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Every year, Team PostHog congregates for our annual all-company offsite. In previous years we've been to Italy, Portugal and Iceland. This year, we went to Aruba – a tiny, Caribbean island just off the north coast of Venezuela.
```

Got a request for a dashboard? DM someone from the marketing on our community Slack.

For Joe, one hackathon project wasn't enough. He also worked with Eli Kinsey from the Website & Docs team to ship [PostHog Tracks](/tracks), a new way to discover tutorials organized by role.

## A built-in data warehouse for PostHog

- **Team DataBeach:** Marius Andra, Frank Hamand and Harry Waye

Dubbed DataBeach because Frank and Harry started building the feature while sipping Piña Coladas by the beach, DataBeach is all about our long-term vision of  [simplifying the modern data stack](/blog/modern-data-stack-sucks) for startups. Less time spent wrangling data = more time shipping products. 

![databeach](../images/blog/aruba/data-beach.png)

The MVP they built consists of custom tables that are created and queried through the PostHog UI and API. These tables provide a way to store and query data from sources like Stripe, Hubspot (see above), Intercom, and more, along with data from PostHog.

There's more to build before PostHog is ready to be your data warehouse, but we're working on it. Keep an eye on our [public roadmap](/roadmap) for updates.

> ## Building a Zendesk killer in PostHog

Author: ```suggestion
## Levelling up PostHog support
```

Reviewer 4: American English is leveling FYI

- **Team Arubug:** Tiina Turban, Simon Fisher, Paul D'Ambra, Cameron DeLeone, and Cory Watilo

Our amazing, direct-to-an-engineer support has anecdotally been a big reason why people love us. But there's a couple of inefficiencies we've been running into especially as we grow

> - lack the context a support hero or engineer needs to fix it, 

Reviewer 3: this scans strangely to me...

reports lack context?
the hero lacks context?

> Our amazing, direct-to-an-engineer support has anecdotally been a big reason why people love us. But there's a couple of inefficiencies we've been running into especially as we grow
> - lack the context a support hero or engineer needs to fix it, 
>   - furthermore we have session recordings, why are we wasting time trying to repro instead of just checking out the session recordings.
> - lack of ability to see trends/aggregated info about support requests
> - too many places for support requests to come in which makes doing support confusing and prioritising hard.

Author: ```suggestion
Anecdotally, our direct-to-an-engineer support is a big reason why people love us. But we've run into a few of inefficiencies as we've grown, such as:

- Support requests that lack the context an engineer needs to fix it
- Lack of trends and aggregated info about support requests
- Difficulty managing multiple sources for support requests
```

Enter team Arubug, who decided there had to be a better way.

// TODO: Video of site app

The team started by [building a site app](/tutorials/build-site-app) for bug reports based on our existing [Feedback Widget](/apps/feedback-widget), which sends a `$bug_report` event to PostHog.

// TODO: Screenshot of dashboard

These reports feed into a dashboard that tracks bug reports, helping us to identity trends. Bugs can broken down as tables with relevant properties, and session replays, attached.

// TODO: Screenshot of bug report table 

The team also built a communication tab into bug reports, so support can send emails and leave notes on tickets with additional context without leaving the app. Every email is a ClickHouse event tied to the initial UUID of the report event, with emails (for now) sent and received via Zapier.

// TODO: Screenshot of communication tab

> After the hackathon we've reviewed the plan:

Author: ```suggestion
After the hackathon, we've reviewed the plan:
```

> After the hackathon we've reviewed the plan:
> 
> - We realised that there's another problem internally. Due to the increased complexity of our product, it’s become harder for a single engineer to provide good support for all of our products. Support heroes also shield product teams from feedback about their product, which means it’s harder to iterate on a product. So we're going to use this in-app integration to split out to the more specific team helping us do triaging effectively.
> 
> - We've decided at this point not to continue the work on the communication tab and instead integrate better with Zendesk. That said, the way we handle support can be used by customers too – there will be a blog post coming to explain this further.

Author: ```suggestion
After the hackathon, we reviewed the plan and realised:

1. Due to the increased complexity of our product, it’s become harder for a single engineer to provide good support for all of our products.

2. Support heroes shield product teams from important feedback about their product, blocking an important feedback loop.

Consequently, we decided to use this new in-app integration to triage support requests by product/team, and cease work on the communication tab and focus on deeper integration with Zendesk.

// TODO: Screenshot of bug request help thingy

Now, we're routing all support requests through the Help menu in the PostHog, making it easier for us to triage tickets and gather the context (including session replays) to solve your problems efficiently. 
```

Author: @tiina303 @pauldambra Suggested tweaks to the above. Let me know if this is good to go!

Reviewer 2: Maybe just "and keep using the integration with Zendesk."

> After the hackathon we've reviewed the plan:
> 
> - We realized that there's another problem internally. Due to the increased complexity of our product, it’s become harder for a single engineer to provide good support for all of our products. Support heroes also shield product teams from feedback about their product, which means it’s harder to iterate on a product. So we're going to use this in-app integration to split out to the more specific team helping us do triage effectively.
> 
> - We've decided at this point not to continue the work on the communication tab and instead integrate better with Zendesk. That said, the way we handle support can be used by customers too – there will be a blog post coming to explain this further.

Author: ```suggestion
After the hackathon, we reviewed the plan and realized: 

1. Due to the increased complexity of our product, it’s become harder for a single engineer to provide good support for all of our products. 

2. Support heroes shield product teams from important feedback about their product, making it harder iterate.

Consequently, we decided to use the hackathon in-app integration to triage support requests by product/team, and improve our integration with Zendesk instead of developing the communication tab further. 

// TODO: Add in-app bug report screenshot

Now, instead of our single support hero rotation, each team will handle support requests for their product, and tickets will be enhanced with useful context, such as session replays and product usage.
```

@tiina303 Revision of this section. Let me know if this works.

Reviewer 2: yes this looks better :)

Note the other pro of this approach in my mind was that we now can look at aggregated info (re last sentence)>

Check out the [MaxAI repo](https://github.com/PostHog/max-ai) for more info.

## Dashboard template libraries and learning tracks

- **Team Vibes:** Ian Vanagas, Joe Martin and Andy Vandervell

The marketing team worked together to build (and ship) a [public library of pre-built dashboards](/templates), including an [AARRR pirate metrics dashboard](/templates/aarrr-dashboard), [templates for B2C](/templates/b2c-dashboard) and [B2B products](/templates/b2c-dashboard), and a [landing page report](/templates/landing-dashboard) for marketers transitioning from Google Analytics.

![dashboard templates](../images/blog/aruba/templates.png)

These dashboards are accessible from the 'New Dashboard' modal in PostHog. Some templates require custom events, which you'll be asked to configure before creating the dashboard – you can also change the events you track later.

![dashboard templates](../images/blog/aruba/setup-events.png)

Got a request for a dashboard? DM someone from the marketing on our community Slack.

> For Joe, one hackathon project wasn't enough. He also worked with Eli Kinsey from the Website & Docs team to ship [PostHog Tracks](/tracks), a new way to discover tutorials organized by role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A curated set of PostHog tutorials

- **Team Not-ShuffleHog:** Joe Martin and Eli Kinsey

For Joe, one hackathon project wasn't enough. He also worked with Eli Kinsey from the Website & Docs team to ship [PostHog Tracks](/tracks), a new way to discover tutorials organized by role.

Tracks groups tutorials into curated lesson groups based on the common use-cases we see in PostHog. There are lesson tracks for Product Engineers, Front-end Developers, and Product Managers. 

The team name is a reference to a hackathon project Joe is especially passionate about, but wasn't able to work on this year. One day. 
```

## A built-in data warehouse for PostHog

- **Team DataBeach:** Marius Andra, Frank Hamand and Harry Waye

Dubbed DataBeach because Frank and Harry started building the feature while sipping Piña Coladas by the beach, DataBeach is all about our long-term vision of [simplifying the modern data stack](/blog/modern-data-stack-sucks) for startups. Less time spent wrangling data = more time shipping products. 

![databeach](../images/blog/aruba/data-beach.png)

> They teamed up with Marius to an build MVP consisting of custom tables that are created and queried through the PostHog UI and API. These tables provide a way to store and query data from sources like Stripe, Hubspot (see above), Intercom, and more, along with data from PostHog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They teamed up with Marius to an build MVP consisting of custom tables that are created and queried through the PostHog UI and API. These tables provide a way to store and query data from sources such as Stripe, Hubspot (see above), Intercom, and more, along with data from PostHog.
```
